High Ground
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
April 20th 2019
2R+F
12 players
Karl Schaefer
https://www.vekn.net/event-calendar/event/9169

-- 2gw5 + 4vp in the final

Lions and Tigers and Legionnaires, Oh My!

Grinder-style Emerald Legionnaire deck

When building this deck, I wanted to take the traditional Ventrue/!Ventrue grinder, replace the Ventrue/!Ventrue with Harbingers and the Dominate with Emerald Legionnaires. There's not an even math in that conversion, however. There's no good answer to Deflection, since all of the Auspex bounce locks your vampires. Weighted Walking Sticks don't provide enough permanence nor enough safety for your vampires lacking Fortitude. Furthermore, space has to be made for Spectral Divination and Breath of Thanatos for their versatility. While I like the result, in the end, this is probably just a fightier version of Martin Weinmayer's Emerald Dream.

I wasn't sure what people would play today, but I wanted good defense. I finished up the deck about 2 hours before the event, and found the right mix for today. The final had two fast bleed decks that I knew about and two decks that I hadn't seen all day.
John M. (Toreador/!Toreador Anarch Toolbox) 0 VP -> John E. (Dem Breed with Madman's Quill) 0 VP -> Me 4 VP -> Mark (Nocturn Bleed) 0 VP -> Will (+Bleeders with AUS/OBF)

I knew both Mark and Will were strong bleeders, having survived as prey to each deck, I didn't want to risk that again. I was unsure of the other decks, so decided to be Mark's predator because I hoped to be able to wear him down during his undirected Nocturn recruitments. I felt that was still a risky choice. I don't have a lot of Eagle's Sight, so it was possible that Mark could have taken 3 VPs before I could get him under control.

Going third was perfect for me and I had a great crypt with four different vampires. I got Erebus in play on turn 2 and on the next turn gave him a Guardian Angel and a Bowl of Convergence. I got Maldavis in play next. Mark was only taking forward actions early and Will's Cornelius Ottavio had standing 3 bleed vs. every deck on the table. My predator hit Erebus with a Pentex Subversion, played Sibyl's Tongue to find a Conceal and immediately tried to burn the Bowl. Maldavis was barely able to block it. Maldavis took an action to remove the Pentex and drew a block. Mark was going forward very effectively and I had little to say about it. Will was trying to outrace his predator. John M, my grand-predator, took two actions to remove the Pentex (Change of Target on the first), then sunk a big bleed on John E. Erebus was able to block again and tried to do so with almost every action my predator took. After a few feints, John E got a Creation Rites in play. At this point, I got my first Legionnaire and then brought out Zygodat. Then knocked off the Creation Rites with Scourge of the Enochians. Mark started to take undirected actions, as the Nocturns came up. I wore down his vampires' blood totals (Obtenebration is expensive), but he made really good progress. When it came to my turn again, I played another Legionnaire normally and mostly held off. The pool totals are very low for both Will and John M. When a bleed of three gets bounced to me, I decided that sending it to John M instead of my prey is the better long term move. If Will can get a VP and I'm the last man standing, I'd win on seeding (or better). John M blocked, but that took critical resources. On my turn, I Pentexed Mark's fourth vampire and sent my Legionnaires after The Path of Night. Mark needs to take a lot of Nocturn actions and I lock every minion to keep Mark from going forward. Will survives and is able to oust John M. John E hits me with a bleed that I can't block, but doesn't have enough to really hurt me. I ousted Mark with Legionnaires and the next turn got Will. John E's bloat machine was working well, but his minions were low on blood. I had The Unmasking and four vampires and three Legionnaires. When I dropped Smiling Jack, John E conceded with ~30 minutes left in the final.

The critical play, in my mind, was recognizing that I needed to throw John M off the island and let Will have a VP and the extra pool that comes with it.

Crypt (13 cards, min=19 max=28 avg=5.85)
----------------------------------------
5x Erebus            7  dem AUS FOR NEC      Harbinger of Skulls:3
2x Neighbor John     5  dom for AUS          Ventrue antitribu:4
2x Solomon Batanea   5  nec AUS FOR          Harbinger of Skulls:4
1x Sennadurek        6  dom AUS NEC          Nagaraja:4
1x Zygodat           6  pot AUS NEC          Harbinger of Skulls:4
1x Nicomedes         5  aus for nec vic      Harbinger of Skulls:4
1x Maldavis (ADV)    4  for pre AUS          Caitiff:3

Library (90 cards)
Master (18)
2x Direct Intervention
2x Dreams of the Sphinx
1x Erciyes Fragments, The
2x Guardian Angel
1x Pentex(TM) Subversion
1x Powerbase: Montreal
1x Rack, The
2x Smiling Jack, The Anarch
5x Vessel
1x WMRH Talk Radio

Action (1)
1x Aranthebes, The Immortal

Ally (9)
1x Carlton Van Wyk
8x Emerald Legionnaire

Equipment (5)
2x .44 Magnum
1x Bowl of Convergence
1x Ivory Bow
1x Sniper Rifle

Action Modifier/Combat (5)
5x Breath of Thanatos

Action Modifier/Reaction (4)
4x Spectral Divination

Reaction (31)
2x Delaying Tactics
3x Eagle's Sight
7x Eyes of Argus
3x Forced Awakening
2x Melange
3x My Enemy's Enemy
4x On the Qui Vive
2x Precognition
5x Telepathic Misdirection

Combat (15)
3x Concealed Weapon
5x Indomitability
2x Rolling with the Punches
2x Soak
3x Target Vitals

Event (2)
1x Scourge of the Enochians
1x Unmasking, The
